# Protocol Actors

### **Protocol Actors**

* **Lenders** receive cUSD in exchange for depositing whitelisted assets to the collateral pool. The underlying assets are always redeemable.&#x20;
* **stcUSD holders** receive stcUSD by staking cUSD. stcUSD earns auto-compounding yield generated by Cap's network of Borrowers. Yield can be redeemed at any time.
* **Borrowers** generate yield by drawing reserve capital to execute proprietary strategies. To be eligible to borrow, they are required to secure delegations from Underwriters.&#x20;
* **Underwriters** delegate locked assets to Borrowers via Shared Security Networks. Each Underwriter selects a Borrower they wish to underwrite the risk of. Underwriter delegations are used to protect Lenders against default risk.
* **Liquidators** liquidate undercollateralized positions via permissionless Dutch auctions once the Borrower's health factor falls below the liquidation threshold.&#x20;

### **Aligning incentives**

* **Lenders** can spend cUSD on any network with transparency guarantees. The reserve is always transparent via fully onchain contracts. They can also use cUSD to off-ramp to any of the reserve assets.
* **stcUSD holders** earn yield regardless of market condition and size. More importantly, their principal is protected by verifiable recourse.&#x20;
* **Borrowers** can source additional capital with no cost basis, retaining any surplus yield after underwriting premium and hurdle rate fees. Furthermore, borrow terms are flexible as Borrowers are able to negotiate with their Underwriter.&#x20;
* **Underwriters** earn premiums in exchange for their delegations. They have full autonomy to charge risk premium per Borrower, paid out in blue chip assets such as ETH and USD.&#x20;
* **Liquidators** earn liquidation bonuses. Dutch auctions facilitate faster liquidations as Liquidators earn higher bonuses if they are able to liquidate faster.
